## Monte Carlo experiments

This repository contains codes and discussion concerning Monte Carlo experiments. Notebook "*Monte Carlo Experiments*" presents the motivation for applying simulations based on random sampling from probability distributions. There are both practical and theoretical purposes for using Monte Carlo experiments, and they all share the same common structure of simulation under Monte Carlo methods: process modeling, inputs definition, output calculation, and analysis of results by aggregation. As validity of results depends on statistical theorems such as the law of large numbers and the central limit theorem, the generation of a large collection of random values is crucial for Monte Carlo experiments.
<br>
<br>
HTML files "*1 Probability Convergence of OLS Estimates*" and "*2 Probability Convergence of IV Estimates*" have codes for implementing a Monte Carlo simulation that illustrates the consistency property of the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) and the Instrumental Variables (IV) estimators, respectively. Both estimation methods are specially useful for scientific research where a causal effect should be identified and, then, inferred from data. OLS can also applied for machine learning systems, with particular relevance when interpretability and explainability are main issues for the application. Consistency means that the estimators converge in probability towards the true populational values. Those HTML files illustrate that, as sample size grows, estimated coefficients get arbitrarily close to the true (assumed) values.
